Review contributing docs for language and ease, tests sections (#5121)
ethereum/solidity: docs/contributing.rst

Running the compiler tests
==========================

> The ``scripts/tests.sh`` scripts executes most Solidity tests and

Reviewer: Should be `The script ...`

runs ``aleth`` automatically if it is in the path, but does not download it,
so you need to install it first. Please read on for the details.

Solidity includes different types of tests, most of them bundled into the ``soltest``
application. Some of them require the ``aleth`` client in testing mode, others require ``libz3``.

> To run a basic set of tests that require ``aleth`` nor ``libz3``, run

Reviewer: I think `neither` should be kept

Author: It's not really needed, but I added it back anyway.

> ``./scripts/soltest.sh --no-ipc --no-smt``. This script runss ``build/test/soltest``

Reviewer: double s

internally.

The option ``--no-smt`` disables the tests that require ``libz3``, and
``--no-ipc`` disables those that require ``aleth``.

If you want to run the ipc tests (that test the semantics of the generated code),
you need to install `aleth <https://github.com/ethereum/cpp-ethereum/releases/download/solidityTester/aleth_2018-06-20_artful>`_ and run it in testing mode: ``aleth --test -d /tmp/testeth`` (make sure to rename it).

To run the actual tests, use: ``./scripts/soltest.sh --ipcpath /tmp/testeth/geth.ipc``.

To run a subset of tests, you can use filters:
``./scripts/soltest.sh -t TestSuite/TestName --ipcpath /tmp/testeth/geth.ipc``,
where ``TestName`` can be a wildcard ``*``.

The script ``scripts/tests.sh`` also runs commandline tests and compilation tests
in addition to those found in ``soltest``.

> Travis CI runs some additional tests (including ``solc-js`` and testing third party Solidity frameworks) that require compiling the Emscripten target.

Reviewer: Not only travis. I think we should not mention which CI runs what here.

Author: @chriseth Sorry, that was just a bad merge.

.. note ::

>     You can not use some versions of ``aleth`` cannot for testing. We suggest using

Reviewer: syntax error

    // ----
    // DeclarationError: (36-52): Identifier already declared.

A syntax test must contain at least the contract under test itself, followed by the separator ``// ----``.

> You use the comments to describe the expected compiler errors or warnings. The number range denotes the

Reviewer: I think passive would again be better here, because most of the time, the comments are auto-generated.

Reviewer: We could mention this here, too.

Author: @chriseth this is a great point, and actually something quite important to mention, because as far as I can see, it's not. But… Are there any more details on this process anywhere? And when you say "most of the time", what do you mean?

Or am I missing something here?

Reviewer: It is mentioned at the end of the section, although perhaps not too explicitly. We should probably mention it earlier, but probably better to do that in a new PR.

Author: OK, updated based on this and other comments and will create a new PR in the near future.

location in the source where the error occurred.
If you want the contract to compile without any errors or warning, leave the section after the separator empty
and you can leave out the separator completely.

In the above example, the state variable ``variable`` was declared twice, which is not allowed. This results in a ``DeclarationError`` stating that the identifier was already declared.

> The ``isoltest`` tool is used for these tests and you can find it under ``./test/tools/``. It is an interactive tool which allows

Reviewer: What about specifying the full path already in the beginning?

Author: @chriseth That's a good catch!

    // ----
    // DeclarationError: (36-52): Identifier already declared.

> Running ``./test/isoltest`` again results in a test failure:

Reviewer: I think this should be either `./build/test/tools/isoltest` or `./scripts/isoltest.sh` - please also check the other paths in this file.

            Success

``isoltest`` prints the expected result next to the obtained result, and also

> provides a way to change edit, update, skip, or quite the current contract.

Reviewer: typo: quite

Reviewer: and I think quit just stops everything while the other three operations apply to the current contract.

It offers several options for failing tests:

- ``edit``: ``isoltest`` tries to open the contract in an editor so you can adjust it. It either uses the editor given on the command line (as ``isoltest --editor /path/to/editor``), in the environment variable ``EDITOR`` or just ``/usr/bin/editor`` (in that order).
- ``update``: Updates the contract under test. This either removes the annotation which contains the exception not met or adds missing expectations. The test is then run again.
- ``skip``: Skips the execution of this particular test.
- ``quit``: Quits ``isoltest``.

> Automatically update the test above, and change it to:

Reviewer: I think the original version was better.

            Success

``isoltest`` prints the expected result next to the obtained result, and also

> provides a way to change edit, update, skip, or quit the current contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provides a way to edit, update or skip the current contract file, or quit the application.
```

It offers several options for failing tests:

- ``edit``: ``isoltest`` tries to open the contract in an editor so you can adjust it. It either uses the editor given on the command line (as ``isoltest --editor /path/to/editor``), in the environment variable ``EDITOR`` or just ``/usr/bin/editor`` (in that order).

> - ``update``: Updates the contract under test. This either removes the annotation which contains the exception not met or adds missing expectations. The test is then run again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``update``: Updates the expectations for the contract under test. This either removes the annotation which contains the expectation not met or adds missing expectations. The test is then run again.
```
